README.md, before:

# AI Loan Assistant – WhatsApp & Website Chatbot

This project is an AI-powered loan origination system that allows users to apply for loans via **Website Chat** or **WhatsApp**.  
Both channels connect to a **single Master Agent** that orchestrates verification, risk assessment, underwriting, and document generation.

---

## Features

- Website chat and WhatsApp chat support  
- AI-driven conversation using Groq LLM  
- KYC and document verification  
- Credit & risk assessment using XGBoost  
- Automated loan approval or rejection  
- Sanction letter PDF generation  
- PDF delivery via WhatsApp or website download  

---

## Tech Stack

- **Backend:** Flask (Python)
- **AI:** Groq LLM
- **Risk Model:** XGBoost
- **Messaging:** Twilio WhatsApp API
- **Tunneling:** Ngrok
- **PDF Generation:** ReportLab
- **Document Parsing:** OCR / NLP
- **Frontend:** React + TypeScript (Vite)

---

## Project Architecture (High Level)

- Website Chat → Flask API  
- WhatsApp → Twilio → Flask Webhook  
- Flask → Master Agent  
- Master Agent → Specialized Agents  
- Agents → Backend Systems  
- Output → Website / WhatsApp  

---

## Environment Setup

Create a `.env` file in the backend directory:

```env
TWILIO_ACCOUNT_SID=your_account_sid
TWILIO_AUTH_TOKEN=your_auth_token
TWILIO_WHATSAPP_NUMBER=whatsapp:+14155238886
GROQ_API_KEY=your_groq_api_key
```
### 1. Start the WhatsApp Flask Server

Open a terminal in the backend folder and run:

```bash
python whatsapp_bot.py
```

The server will start on:

```text
http://localhost:5000
```

Keep this terminal running.

---

### 2. Expose the Server Using Ngrok

Open a new terminal and run:

```bash
ngrok http 5000
```

Ngrok will generate a public HTTPS URL like:


https://xxxx.ngrok-free.dev


Copy that URL.

---

### 3. Configure Twilio WhatsApp Webhook

Open **Twilio Console**.

Go to:

```text
Messaging
Try it out
WhatsApp Sandbox
```

Find **WHEN A MESSAGE COMES IN**.

- Paste the webhook URL:


- https://<ngrok-url>/webhook


Example:


- https://xxxx.ngrok-free.dev/webhook


Save the changes.

---

### 4. Join the WhatsApp Sandbox

Send this message to the Twilio sandbox WhatsApp number:


- join sandbox-code


Example:


- join cave-pool


You will receive a confirmation message.

---

### 5. Using the WhatsApp Bot (User Flow)


- User sends "Hi" on WhatsApp
- Bot creates a new session
- Bot asks for phone number and validates it
- Bot collects loan amount
- Bot collects loan purpose
- Bot collects monthly income
- Bot requests KYC documents
- Documents are verified
- Credit score is fetched
- Risk model (XGBoost) is executed
- Loan is approved or rejected
  

### If approved:


- Sanction letter PDF generated
- PDF sent via WhatsApp
- Website download link provided

Commit message:

Update Ngrok server exposure instructions
Added instruction to download Ngrok and add to PATH.

README.md, after:

# AI Loan Assistant – WhatsApp & Website Chatbot

This project is an AI-powered loan origination system that allows users to apply for loans via **Website Chat** or **WhatsApp**.  
Both channels connect to a **single Master Agent** that orchestrates verification, risk assessment, underwriting, and document generation.

---

## Features

- Website chat and WhatsApp chat support  
- AI-driven conversation using Groq LLM  
- KYC and document verification  
- Credit & risk assessment using XGBoost  
- Automated loan approval or rejection  
- Sanction letter PDF generation  
- PDF delivery via WhatsApp or website download  

---

## Tech Stack

- **Backend:** Flask (Python)
- **AI:** Groq LLM
- **Risk Model:** XGBoost
- **Messaging:** Twilio WhatsApp API
- **Tunneling:** Ngrok
- **PDF Generation:** ReportLab
- **Document Parsing:** OCR / NLP
- **Frontend:** React + TypeScript (Vite)

---

## Project Architecture (High Level)

- Website Chat → Flask API  
- WhatsApp → Twilio → Flask Webhook  
- Flask → Master Agent  
- Master Agent → Specialized Agents  
- Agents → Backend Systems  
- Output → Website / WhatsApp  

---

## Environment Setup

Create a `.env` file in the backend directory:

```env
TWILIO_ACCOUNT_SID=your_account_sid
TWILIO_AUTH_TOKEN=your_auth_token
TWILIO_WHATSAPP_NUMBER=whatsapp:+14155238886
GROQ_API_KEY=your_groq_api_key
```
### 1. Start the WhatsApp Flask Server

Open a terminal in the backend folder and run:

```bash
python whatsapp_bot.py
```

The server will start on:

```text
http://localhost:5000
```

Keep this terminal running.

---

### 2. Expose the Server Using Ngrok (download Ngrok first if not done, and add it to PATH)

Open a new terminal and run:

```bash
ngrok http 5000
```

Ngrok will generate a public HTTPS URL like:


https://xxxx.ngrok-free.dev


Copy that URL.

---

### 3. Configure Twilio WhatsApp Webhook

Open **Twilio Console**.

Go to:

```text
Messaging
Try it out
WhatsApp Sandbox
```

Find **WHEN A MESSAGE COMES IN**.

- Paste the webhook URL:


- https://<ngrok-url>/webhook


Example:


- https://xxxx.ngrok-free.dev/webhook


Save the changes.

---

### 4. Join the WhatsApp Sandbox

Send this message to the Twilio sandbox WhatsApp number:


- join sandbox-code


Example:


- join cave-pool


You will receive a confirmation message.

---

### 5. Using the WhatsApp Bot (User Flow)


- User sends "Hi" on WhatsApp
- Bot creates a new session
- Bot asks for phone number and validates it
- Bot collects loan amount
- Bot collects loan purpose
- Bot collects monthly income
- Bot requests KYC documents
- Documents are verified
- Credit score is fetched
- Risk model (XGBoost) is executed
- Loan is approved or rejected
  

### If approved:


- Sanction letter PDF generated
- PDF sent via WhatsApp
- Website download link provided
